In this video we're going to discuss the Enable and secret passwords on Cisco devices.
In this example I have a Cisco router and when I hit Enter I'm taken to user mode and then I can type
enable Which takes me immediately to enable or privilege mode.
There is no authentication at all.
I'm immediately able to start configuring the router from a security point of view.
That's a really bad idea when someone connects to the console of a router or switch.
You typically want to have a password configured so that that person is not able to go from the user
mode to the Enable or privilege mode without some type of security.
It's very risky to have a router configured without some type of us any cation.
Now in this example ingenius three it works a little bit differently.
Vibratos take you to privilege mode immediately.
So I'm going to open up a console to this Cisco router running in Janissary And I'm told that I can
press enter to get started and I'm taken to privilege mode immediately.
So if I type exit and hit enter notice I'm taken to privilege mode straight away on a real Cisco router.
So a physical router you can see in this example that I'm using a 12:32 when I type exit and then hit
enter.
I'm taken to user mode not privilege mode and then I need to be able to go to privileged mode.
Now apart from that you can test the entire lab on Jena's 3 because you can type disable and then type
enable.
And that takes you from user mode to privilege mode once again.
So the issue here is that when you connect to real routers via the console you can gain access to the
router without entering a password.
So we want to change this and add some type of security.